In this video I'll demonstrate how to configure network IO control on Envy's fair distributed switch.
Ok so here you can see I'm at the networking screen of the vees faire web climb and I am going to click
on my vse for distributed switch the VCP demo and here under VCP demo you can see the configure menu
and on the left I've got a menu option for network resource pools.
So this is where I can go to start setting up the network resource pools for my groups.
However at the moment I see this message right here to create network resource pools configure a band
with reservation for virtual machine system traffic.
First let's take a look at system traffic.
So this is a great screen to get a good understanding of what network IO control actually allows.
Here you can see our total bandwidth capacity.
Here is the amount of bandwidth that we have available and what we've done here.
I should say.
What we haven't done with what's been configured by default is there are shared values for all of these
different types of system traffic.
So for example virtual machine traffic has been granted a high number of shares or 100 hundred and then
all of these other types of traffic like fault tolerance Wii motion ice Gazi etc. have been granted
50 shares each.
Now here's the thing you have to bear in mind when it comes to shares.
Shares are only enforced during times of contention.
So if there is a shortage of bandwidth virtual machines are going to get twice as much bandwidth as
the motion or virtual machines are going to get twice as much bandwidth as traffic.
That's what shares are their relative priority during times of contention.
So we've already got a share of values established for all of these different types of system traffic
and that's already baked in there by default.
So let's go here to virtual machine traffic I'm going to hit the little edit button here and the other
thing you can do with network IO control is you can actually establish a reservation for a certain type
of traffic so let's say that I want to guarantee that there is always a minimum of one gig per second
one gigabit per second available for virtual machine traffic.
And so if I want to I can go ahead and configure a reservation for that sort of traffic.
I can even configure limit for different types of traffic I'm not going to do that though I'm going
to configure a reservation for virtual machine traffic.
One of my system traffic types and this is a guarantee.
Right so now I know for sure there is always going to be one gigabit per second available for virtual
machine traffic and all of these other types of traffic can contend for the remaining available bandwidth.
So Network IO control allows things like share's reservations and limits.
So for example let's say that I wanted to set a certain limit for the amount of traffic that's going
to be generated by these fair replication.
Like maybe I know that you know I want to just set some sort of limitation for these for replication
and I can do that.
I could come over here.
I can say OK my Wii's for replication traffic is never going to be more than let's say 250 megabits
per second that will guarantee that that type of traffic does not exceed that amount of bandwidth on
this particular vees for a distributed switch.
OK.
So now that I've got my reservation established for my system traffic type of virtual machine traffic
let's go back to this screen here and I'm going to go ahead and create myself a network resource pool
and I'm going to call it demo porker.
And so what I'm going to do is I'm actually not going to give this a reservation.
I'm just going to go ahead and hit OK here and now I've got this demo poor group established with no
reservation and I haven't even associated a distributed port group with it or anything like that.
And on my port group I can click on under configure properties go to Edit and under Edit I have the
ability to associate this particular group with one of the network resource pools that I have created.
So now my poor group is associated with a network resource pool.
Let's go ahead and go back to avise for a distributed switch.
And here is my demo portrait.
The resource pool that I've created you can see the distributed port group that it's associated with
and the virtual machines that are connected to that distributed group.
And if I want to maybe now I want to go ahead and consider.
Ok now I'm going to give this a certain level of bandwidth reservation.
So I'm going to give it 500 megabits per second that's guaranteed to this particular demo portrait.
So now we've got this configured Let's talk a little bit about why the options that we have are there.
So you'll notice the configured reservation is two gigabits per second.
This is because if we look at system traffic I have already reserved one gig per second for virtual
machine traffic.
I had to do that first.
So I've reserved one gig per second for virtual machine traffic.
And notice here I have two physical adapters so if I go back to network resource pools you'll notice
the total configure reservation is two gigabits per second.
Configured reservation is the bandwidth reservation for Reems system traffic aggregated from all physical
adapters.
So if I want to have more reservations available there I can add more physical adapters or I could go
back to the virtual switch itself and change the reservation for VM traffic under System traffic.
That's the reason why this two gigabit reservation is here.
That's the reason for the maximum.
So what I could do is I could go into a port group and I could potentially configure a maximum of 2
gigs per second.
Basically saying we're going to give one gig per second on each of those physical adapters to this particular
network resource pool.
So when I reserve a certain amount of bandwidth for virtual machine traffic now I can create a bunch
of poor groups a bunch of different network resource pools and they can all kind of have their own little
piece of this reservation that I've created here with my system traffic and so if I want to when I'm
all done here just to kind of demo this process we can easily go through and delete a network resource
pool that we've created.
Of course in order to do that I have to go back to my poor group first added the properties of my port
group and make sure that it's not a member of that network resource pool anymore.
So let's do that first.
That's why my first attempt at removing it failed.
I've gotten that poor group out of that network resource pool.
Now I should have the ability to go ahead and remove this network resource pool and that I can actually
go ahead and revert and remove this reservation if I'd like to do so.
I have to get rid of the network resource pool prior to destroying this reservation.
So I'm going to go ahead and do that now.
And now everything is basically back to defaults as soon as I remove this limit for Vee's for replication
that ideomotor as well.
So that's a great way to use that work IO control.
Again I sort of think of it as kind of like a safety net.
You know it's good to be able to kind of come in here and configure shares for these different types
of traffic.
You may even want to consider saying hey you know virtual machine traffic should have a different shared
value or maybe eyes scuzzy should have a higher share value.
It might be something you want to consider and just kind of massage these different types of system
traffic share values a little bit but that's entirely up to you and the specifics of what's going on
in your particular environment.
One final note.
Just remember for the exam network IO control is only supported on the VSE for distributed switch.
This feature is not available on a VSE for standards which.